Notas on Art. 247

failed in his exercise of this faculty; he rather did
not attempt its highest range. His mind lingered
delighted, athis eye ; and if his mind did proceed
inwards, it soon returned, and contented itself with
that form of expression which, if we may so speak‚
lies in closest contact with material beauty. There-
fore it is that he often brought out, with great felicity
and force, some simple feeling, some fixed type of
character common to a class, but did not care to
ascend to the highest heaven of invention, or stir the
depths os imagination and passion. Nature was per-
ceived by him, rather than imagined3 and he trans
ferred rather than transfigured her likeness As a
consequence, his works delight more than move, in—
terest more than arrest In a remarkable sketch left
behind him os an intended picture of Wishart ad·
ministering the Sacrament before his execution, there
is one truly ideal head,—a monk, who is overlook-
ing the touching solemnity, and in whose pinched‚
withered face are concentrated the uttermost bigotry‚
malice, and vileness of nature, his cruel small eyes
gleaming as it ‘set on fire of heIL' Duncan’s mind
was romantic, rather than historical We see this in
his fine picture of ‘ Prince Charles's Entry into Edin—

burgh' He brings that great pageant out of its own
time into ours, rather than sends us back to it This
arose, as we have said, from the objective tum of his
miud3 and would have rendered him unsurpassed in

 

