56 H orca subseciva.

more effect. When driving about Biggar, or in the
neighbourhood of Langrig, he was full of the past,
showing how keenly, with all his outward reserve, he
had observed and felt. He had aquite peculiar inter·
estin his three flockS, keeping his eye on all their
members, through long years of absence.

His love for his people and for his ‘body’ vas
aspecial love; and his knowledge of the Secession,
through all its many divisions and unions,—-his know-
ledge, not only of its public history, with its immense
controversial and occasional literature, but¹ of the
lives and peculiarities of its ministers,—was of the
most minute and eurious kind. He loved all man·
kind, and specially such as were of ‘'the household
of faith ;’ and he longed for the time when, as
:here was one Shepherd, there would be but one
sheepfold; but he gloried rh being not only a Se
ceder, but a Burgher ; and he often said, that take
them all in all, he knew no body of professing Chris
tians in any country or in any time, worthier of all
honour than that which was founded by the Four
Brethren, not only as God-fearing, God-serving men,
but as members of civil society; men who on every
occasion were found on the side of liberty and order,
truth and justice. He used to say he believed there
was hardly a Tory in the Synod, and that no one but
He whose service is perfect freedom, knew the public
good done, and the public evil averted, by the lives

 

