Lefter to Jolm Caz'rnr, DJ). 67

distance of twenty·f0ur miles. He reached his desti·
nation in the morning, and went to the bookseller's
shop, asking for a copy of the Greek New Testa-
ment. The master os the shop, surprised at such a
request from a shepherd boy, was disposed to make
game of him. Some of the professors coming into
the shop, questioned the lad about his employment
and studies. After hearing his tale, one of them
desired the bookseller to bring the volume. He did
s0, and drawing it down, said, “ Boy, read this, and
you shall have it for nothing.'‘ The boy did so, ac·
quitted himself to the admiration of his judges, and
carried off his Testament, and when the evening
arrived, was studying it in the midst of his fiock
on the braes of Abemethy.'—Memoir (ylico. solen
Broum ffHaddington, by Rev. J. B. Patterson.

‘There is reason to believe this is the New Testa·
ment referred to, The name on the opposite page
was written on the ily-leaf. It is obviously the writ-
ing of a boy, and bears aresemblance to Mr. Brown's
handwriting in mature life. Itis imperfect, wanting
a great part of the Gospel of Matthew. The auto·
graph at the end is that of his son, Thomas, when a
youth at college, afterwards Rev. Dr. Thomas Brown
of Dalkeith.-J. B.'

Ι doubt not my father regarded this little worn old
book, the sword of the Spirit which his ancestor so
nobly won, and wore, and warred with, with not less

 

