Letter to John Cairns, DJ). 19

arrd his love of men as well as for man. He was shy,
and unwilling to ask what he longed to know, liking
better to have it given him without the asking ; and
no one could do this better than ‘Uncle Johnston.'
You may readily understand what a thorough exer·
eise and diversion of an intellectual and social kind
this was, for they were neither os them men to shirk
from close gripes, or trifle and flourish with their
weapons; they laid on and spared not And then my
uncle had generally some special nut of his own to
crach, some thesis to fling down and offer battle on,
some ‘particle' to energize upon ; for though quiet
and calm, he was thoroughly combative, and enjoyed
seeing his irland's blood up, and hearing his emphatic
and bright speech, and watching his flashing eye.
Then he never spared him; criticised and sometimes
quizzed-—sor he had great humour—his style, as well
as debated and weighed his apprehendings and exe-
geses, shaking them heartily to test their strength.
He was so thoroughly independent of all authority,
except that of reason and truth‚ and his own humour;
so ready to detect what was weak‚ extravagant, or
unfair; so full of relish sor intellectual power and
accuracy, and so attached to and proud of my father,
and bent on his making the best of himself, that this
tn'al was never relaxed. His firm and close-grained
mind was a sort os whetstone on which my father
sharpened his wits at this weekly ‘setting’

 

