204 Horae Subsecz'vce.

an immense happiness to her mistress, whose silent
and lonely days she made glad with her oddlty and
mirth. And yet the small creature, old, toothless,
and blind, domineered over her gentle friend—
threatening her sometimes if she presumed to re-
move the small Fury from the inside of her own bed,
into which it pleased her to creep. Indeed‚ Ι believe
it is too true, though it was inferred only, that her
mistress and friend spent a great part of a winter
night in trying to coax her dear little ruffian out of
the centre of the bed. One day the cook asked what
she would have for dinner: ‘I would like a mutton-
chop, but then, you know, Duchie likes minced veal
better l' The faithful and happy little creature died
at a great age, of natural decay.

But time would fail me, and I fear patience would
fail you, my reader, were I to tell· you os CRAB, ol
Jorru Pru, of Puck, and of the rest Cana, the
Mugger's dog, grave, with deep-set, melancholy eyes,
as of a nobleman (say the Master of Ravenswood) in
disguise, large visaged, shaggy, indomitable, come of
the pure Piper Allan’s breed. This Piper Allan, you
must know, lived some two hundred years ago in
Coequet Water, piping like Homer, from placeto
place, and famous not less sor his dog than for his
music, his news and his songs. The Earl of Nor·
thumberland, of his day, offered the piper a small
farm for his dog, but after deliberating for a day,

 

