330 Horce Subsecioce.

a subject at his fingerends ; that part of the mind
lying nearest the outer world, and having to act on
it through the bodily organs, through the will—the
outposts must be always awake. Itis os course, so
to speak, only a portion ol the mind that is thus
needed and thus available3 if the whole mind were
for ever at the advanced post, it would soon lose
itself in this endeavour to keep ie Now, though the
thing needed to be done may be simple enough, what
goes to the doing of it, and to the being at once
ready and able to do it, involves much ; the wedge
would not be a wedge, or do a wedge’s work, without
the width behind as well as the edge in front. Your
men of promptitude without genius or power, includ-
ing knowledge and will, are those who present the
wedge the wrong way. Thus your extremely prompt
people are often doing the wrong thing, which is

Ι almost always worse than nothing. Our vague friend

who bit ‘Yarrow’s' tail instead of ‘the Chicken’s‚’
was full ol promptitude; as was also that other man,
probably a relative, who barred the door with a
boiled carrot: each knew what was needed÷the
biting the tail, the barring the door, both erred
as to the means-the one by want of presence of
mind, the other by lack os mind itsell. We must
have just enough ol the right knowledge and no
more: we must have the habitos using this; we
must have sels-reliance, and the consentaneousness

 

