‘ With Brnz'ns, Sir? 405

lating his invention, balancing his judgment, but
not appearing in regular propositions.’ ‘An art
(that of medicine. for instance) will of course admit
into its limits, everything (ond nothing) else which
can conduce to the performance of its own proper
warh· it recognises no other principles of selec·
tion’

‘He who reads a book on logie, probably thinks
no better when he rises up than when he sat down,
but if any of the principles there unfolded cleave
to his memory, and he afterwards, perhaps uncon-
sciously, shapes and corrects his thoughts by thern,
no doubt the whole powers of his reasoning receive
benefit In a word, every art, from reasoning to
riding and rowing, is learned by assiduous practice,
and if principles do any good, it is proportioned to
the readiness with which they can be converted into
rules, and the patient constancy with which they are
appHed in all our attempts at excellence?

‘A man con teach names to another man, buthe
cannot plant in onother’s mind that sar highcr gift—
the power of naming.’

‘Langnage is not only the vehicle of thought, it is
a great and efficient instrument in thinhzng'

‘The whole of every sciente may be made the suh

ject of teaching. Not so with nrt,· much of it is not .

teachable.’
Coleridge’s profound and brilliant, but unequal,

 

